{
"title": "Transform with Contivo",
"linkTitle": "Transform with Contivo",
"date": "2019-10-17",
"description": "The **Contivo**\\nfilter uses the Liaison Contivo engine to transform messages into an alternative format. First you use the Contivo Analyst tool to define the mappings required for your transformation. For example, a specific XML element is placed into a specific field in a COBOL message. In Contivo Analyst, when your mappings are defined, you automatically generate Java code, which must be placed on the API Gateway classpath."
}
﻿
<div id="p_connector_contivo_over">

Overview
--------

The **Contivo**
filter uses the Liaison Contivo engine to transform messages into an alternative format. First you use the Contivo Analyst tool to define the mappings required for your transformation. For example, a specific XML element is placed into a specific field in a COBOL message. In Contivo Analyst, when your mappings are defined, you automatically generate Java code, which must be placed on the API Gateway classpath.

</div>

<div id="p_connector_contivo_conf">

Configuration
-------------

Complete the following fields to configure the **Contivo**
filter:

**Name**:\
Enter an appropriate name for this filter to display in a policy.

**Transform class name**:\
Contivo Analyst generates a Java class file that performs the transformation. You must place this class on the API Gateway classpath by copying the associated class file into the `INSTALL_DIR/ext/lib`
directory, where `INSTALL_DIR`
points to the root of your product installation. Enter the name of the class in this field.

**Source FFD**:\
Contivo Analyst generates a Fixed File Descriptor (FFD) that describes the format of the *source*
message to be transformed by the Contivo engine. Browse to the location of this file using the **Browse**
button.

**Target FFD**:\
Contivo Analyst also generates a Fixed File Descriptor (FFD) for the *target*
message, which is the message generated by the Contivo engine. Browse to the location of this file using the **Browse**
button.

**Transformed Content Type**:\
Enter the Content-type of the target message used by the API Gateway when routing the output of the transformation on to the target web service.

</div>
