{
"title": "Generate key",
"linkTitle": "Generate key",
"date": "2019-10-17",
"description": "The **Generate Key**\\nfilter enables you to generate an asymmetric key pair, or a symmetric key. The generated keys are placed in message attributes, which are then available for consumption by other filters."
}
﻿
<div id="p_encryption_generate_key_overview">

Overview
--------

The **Generate Key**
filter enables you to generate an asymmetric key pair, or a symmetric key. The generated keys are placed in message attributes, which are then available for consumption by other filters.

A typical use case for this filter is in conjunction with the **Security Token Service Client**
filter. For example, you wish to request a SAML token with a symmetric proof-of-possession key from an STS. You need to provide the key material to the STS as a binary secret, which is the private key of an asymmetric key pair. You can use an asymmetric private key generated on-the-fly instead of from the Certificate Store with an associated certificate.

You must configure the **Generate Key**
filter in a **Security Token Service Client**
filter policy that runs before the WS-Trust request is created. You can then configure the **Security Token Service Client**
filter to consume the generated asymmetric private key. For more details, see [*STS client authentication* on page 1](authn_sts_client.htm).

{{< alert title="Note" color="primary" >}}An asymmetric key pair generated by the **Generate Key**
filter can also be used by the **Security Token Service Client**
filter when a proof-of-possession key of type `PublicKey`
is requested. The generated public key can be used as the `UseKey`
in the request to the STS. {{< /alert >}}

</div>

<div id="p_encryption_generate_key_conf">

Configuration
-------------

Complete the following fields to configure this filter:

**Name**:\
Enter an appropriate name for the filter to display in a policy.

**Key Type**:\
Select the key type from the drop-down list. Defaults to `RSA Asymmetric Key Pair`. You can also select `Symmetric Key`, which is based on Hash-based Message Authentication Code - Secure Hash Algorithm (HMAC-SHA1).

**Key Size**:\
Enter the key size in bits. Defaults to `2048`
bits.

</div>
